tf2 Tutorial: tf2 and Time (C++) (#1898)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Tutorials/Tf2/Learning-About-Tf2-And-Time-Cpp.rst

.. _LearningAboutTf2AndTimeCpp:

Learning about tf2 and time (C++)
=================================

**Goal:** Learn how to wait for a transform to be available on the tf2 tree using ``lookupTransform()`` function.

**Tutorial level:** Intermediate

**Time:** 10 minutes

.. contents:: Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Background
----------

In previous tutorials, we recreated the turtle demo by writing a :ref:`tf2 broadcaster <WritingATf2BroadcasterCpp>` and a :ref:`tf2 listener <WritingATf2ListenerCpp>`.
We also learned how to :ref:`add a new frame to the transformation tree <AddingAFrameCpp>` and learned how tf2 keeps track of a tree of coordinate frames.
This tree changes over time, and tf2 stores a time snapshot for every transform (for up to 10 seconds by default).
Until now we used the ``lookpTransform()`` function to get access to the latest available transforms in that tf2 tree, without knowing at what time that transform was recorded.

> This tutorial will teach you how to get a transform at a specific time.

Reviewer: It'd be nice to say what types of problems this feature is useful for. Maybe for calculating derivatives or for probabilistic applications that take previous positions into account? I'm not exactly sure.

Author: Added those examples in https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/pull/1898/commits/befba0fa3a875812c81607fa5e9a7ed8dedafb22

2 Wait for transforms
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

tf2 provides a nice tool that will wait until a transform becomes available.
You use this by adding a timeout parameter to ``lookupTransform()``.
To fix this, edit your code as shown below (add the last timeout parameter):

.. code-block:: C++

   rclcpp::Time now = this->get_clock()->now();
   transformStamped = tf_buffer_->lookupTransform(
      toFrameRel,
      fromFrameRel,
      now,
      50ms);

The ``lookupTransform()`` can take four arguments, where the last one is an optional timeout.
It will block for up to that duration waiting for it to timeout.

3 Checking the results
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can now run the launch file.

.. code-block:: console

   ros2 launch learning_tf2_cpp turtle_tf2_demo.launch.py

You should notice that ``lookupTransform()`` will actually block until the transform between the two turtles becomes available (this will usually take a few milliseconds).
Once the timeout has been reached (fifty milliseconds in this case), an exception will be raised only if the transform is still not available.

Summary
-------

> This tutorial teaches you to wait for a transform to be available on the tf2 tree when using the ``lookupTransform()`` function.

Reviewer: It'd also be nice to remind us what types of problems this is useful for here.

Author: https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/pull/1898/commits/1a6a7e4d671cd357bbeaca7aa4da0fd26b0f4083

Until now we used the ``lookpTransform()`` function to get access to the latest available transforms in that tf2 tree, without knowing at what time that transform was recorded.
This tutorial will teach you how to get a transform at a specific time.

The possibility to acquire a transformation at any given time is a powerful tool for various robotics applications.
For example, it can be useful to acquire the robot base poses relative to the map at specific time periods.

> This data can then be used for construction of robot's path, calculation of derivatives, or for probabilistic applications that take previous positions into account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will teach you how to get a transform at a specific time, which can be useful, for example, to reconstruct a robot's path.
```
I'm not exactly sure if this would be explicitly useful for calculating derivatives (probably, Jacobians) or for probabilistic applications. Specifically, I'm not sure if this would be the best practice way. It might be prohibitively inefficient.

If you're sure about them, maybe we add them back in. In my previous review, they were just starting suggestions to seed possible areas where this could be useful.

Author: Sure, I am also not aware of the best practices behind those applications. In addition to that I also don't think we need that example with a path, as there could be obviously better ways of storing robot's path, rather than acquiring all transformations at specific time stamps at once. So think it would be best simply to omit that information.

Updated in:

https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/pull/1898/commits/e399e336c4b3760dc316567496d373499d4a56bb

Summary
-------

> In this tutorial, you learned how to acqurie transform at speicific time stamp and to wait for a transform to be available on the tf2 tree when using the ``lookupTransform()`` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you learned how to acquire a transform at a specific timestamp and how to wait for a transform to be available on the tf2 tree when using the ``lookupTransform()`` function.
```

Author: https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/pull/1898/commits/a1eb824e0053d2e9a76e5996e6d44010a7b8d054
